docs/type-system/directives.md, before:

# Built-in directives
Directive is a way to dynamically change the structure and shape of queries using variables.
Directive can be attached to a field or fragment inclusion, and can affect execution of the 
query in any way the server desires.

GraphQL specification includes two built-in directives:
 
* `@include(if: Boolean)` Only include this field or fragment in the result if the argument is `true` 
* `@skip(if: Boolean)` Skip this field or fragment if the argument is `true`

For example:
```graphql
query Hero($episode: Episode, $withFriends: Boolean!) {
  hero(episode: $episode) {
    name
    friends @include(if: $withFriends) {
      name
    }
  }
}
```
Here if `$withFriends` variable is set to `false` - friends section will be ignored and excluded 
from response. Important implementation detail: those fields will never be executed 
(and not just removed from response after execution).

# Custom directives
**graphql-php** supports custom directives even though their presence does not affect execution of fields.
But you can use `GraphQL\Type\Definition\ResolveInfo` in field resolvers to modify the output depending
on those directives or perform statistics collection.
 
Other use case is your own query validation rules relying on custom directives.

In **graphql-php** custom directive is an instance of `GraphQL\Type\Definition\Directive`
(or one of it subclasses) which accepts an array with following options:

```php
use GraphQL\Type\Definition\Directive;
use GraphQL\Type\Definition\FieldArgument;

$trackDirective = new Directive([
    'name' => 'track',
    'description' => 'Instruction to record usage of the field by client' 
    'locations' => [
        Directive::LOCATION_FIELD,
    ],
    'args' => [
        new FieldArgument([
            'name' => 'details',
            'type' => Type::string(),
            'description' => 'String with additional details of field usage scenario'
            'defaultValue' => ''
        ])
    ]
]);
```

Directive location can be one of the following values:

* `Directive::LOCATION_QUERY`
* `Directive::LOCATION_MUTATION`
* `Directive::LOCATION_SUBSCRIPTION`
* `Directive::LOCATION_FIELD`
* `Directive::LOCATION_FRAGMENT_DEFINITION`
* `Directive::LOCATION_FRAGMENT_SPREAD`
* `Directive::LOCATION_INLINE_FRAGMENT`

Commit message:

Work in progress on better docs (added section on query execution and error handling)

docs/type-system/directives.md, after:

# Built-in directives
Directive is a way for client to give GraphQL server additional context and hints on how to execute
the query. Directive can be attached to a field or fragment inclusion, and can affect execution of the 
query in any way the server desires.

GraphQL specification includes two built-in directives:
 
* `@include(if: Boolean)` Only include this field or fragment in the result if the argument is `true` 
* `@skip(if: Boolean)` Skip this field or fragment if the argument is `true`

For example:
```graphql
query Hero($episode: Episode, $withFriends: Boolean!) {
  hero(episode: $episode) {
    name
    friends @include(if: $withFriends) {
      name
    }
  }
}
```
Here if `$withFriends` variable is set to `false` - friends section will be ignored and excluded 
from response. Important implementation detail: those fields will never be executed 
(not just removed from response after execution).

# Custom directives
**graphql-php** supports custom directives even though their presence does not affect execution of fields.
But you can use `GraphQL\Type\Definition\ResolveInfo` in field resolvers to modify the output depending
on those directives or perform statistics collection.
 
Other use case is your own query validation rules relying on custom directives.

In **graphql-php** custom directive is an instance of `GraphQL\Type\Definition\Directive`
(or one of it subclasses) which accepts an array with following options:

```php
use GraphQL\Type\Definition\Directive;
use GraphQL\Type\Definition\FieldArgument;

$trackDirective = new Directive([
    'name' => 'track',
    'description' => 'Instruction to record usage of the field by client' 
    'locations' => [
        Directive::LOCATION_FIELD,
    ],
    'args' => [
        new FieldArgument([
            'name' => 'details',
            'type' => Type::string(),
            'description' => 'String with additional details of field usage scenario'
            'defaultValue' => ''
        ])
    ]
]);
```

Directive location can be one of the following values:

* `Directive::LOCATION_QUERY`
* `Directive::LOCATION_MUTATION`
* `Directive::LOCATION_SUBSCRIPTION`
* `Directive::LOCATION_FIELD`
* `Directive::LOCATION_FRAGMENT_DEFINITION`
* `Directive::LOCATION_FRAGMENT_SPREAD`
* `Directive::LOCATION_INLINE_FRAGMENT`
