docs/error-handling.md, before:

# Errors in GraphQL

Query execution process never throws exceptions. Instead, all errors are caught and collected. 
After execution, they are available in **$errors** prop of 
[`GraphQL\Executor\ExecutionResult`](reference.md#graphqlexecutorexecutionresult).

When the result is converted to a serializable array using its **toArray()** method, all errors are 
converted to arrays as well using default error formatting (see below). 

Alternatively, you can apply [custom error filtering and formatting](#custom-error-handling-and-formatting)
for your specific requirements.

# Default Error formatting
By default, each error entry is converted to an associative array with following structure:

```php
<?php
[
    'message' => 'Error message',
    'category' => 'graphql',
    'locations' => [
        ['line' => 1, 'column' => 2]
    ],
    'path' => [
        'listField',
        0,
        'fieldWithException'
    ]
];
```
Entry at key **locations** points to a character in query string which caused the error.
In some cases (like deep fragment fields) locations will include several entries to track down 
the path to field with the error in query.

Entry at key **path** exists only for errors caused by exceptions thrown in resolvers. 
It contains a path from the very root field to actual field value producing an error 
(including indexes for list types and field names for composite types). 

**Internal errors**

As of version **0.10.0**, all exceptions thrown in resolvers are reported with generic message **"Internal server error"**.
This is done to avoid information leak in production environments (e.g. database connection errors, file access errors, etc).

Only exceptions implementing interface [`GraphQL\Error\ClientAware`](reference.md#graphqlerrorclientaware) and claiming themselves as **safe** will 
be reported with a full error message.

For example:
```php
<?php
use GraphQL\Error\ClientAware;

class MySafeException extends \Exception implements ClientAware
{
    public function isClientSafe()
    {
        return true;
    }
    
    public function getCategory()
    {
        return 'businessLogic';
    }
}
```
When such exception is thrown it will be reported with a full error message:
```php
<?php
[
    'message' => 'My reported error',
    'category' => 'businessLogic',
    'locations' => [
        ['line' => 10, 'column' => 2]
    ],
    'path' => [
        'path',
        'to',
        'fieldWithException'
    ]
];
```

To change default **"Internal server error"** message to something else, use: 
```
GraphQL\Error\FormattedError::setInternalErrorMessage("Unexpected error");
```

#Debugging tools

During development or debugging use `$result->toArray(true)` to add **debugMessage** key to 
each formatted error entry. If you also want to add exception trace - pass flags instead:

```
use GraphQL\Error\Debug;
$debug = Debug::INCLUDE_DEBUG_MESSAGE | Debug::INCLUDE_TRACE;
$result = GraphQL::executeQuery(/*args*/)->toArray($debug);
```

This will make each error entry to look like this:
```php
<?php
[
    'debugMessage' => 'Actual exception message',
    'message' => 'Internal server error',
    'category' => 'internal',
    'locations' => [
        ['line' => 10, 'column' => 2]
    ],
    'path' => [
        'listField',
        0,
        'fieldWithException'
    ],
    'trace' => [
        /* Formatted original exception trace */
    ]
];
```

If you prefer first resolver exception to be re-thrown, use following flags:
```php
<?php
use GraphQL\GraphQL;
use GraphQL\Error\Debug;
$debug = Debug::INCLUDE_DEBUG_MESSAGE | Debug::RETHROW_INTERNAL_EXCEPTIONS;

// Following will throw if there was an exception in resolver during execution:
$result = GraphQL::executeQuery(/*args*/)->toArray($debug); 
```

# Custom Error Handling and Formatting
It is possible to define custom **formatter** and **handler** for result errors.

**Formatter** is responsible for converting instances of [`GraphQL\Error\Error`](reference.md#graphqlerrorerror) 
to an array. **Handler** is useful for error filtering and logging. 

For example, these are default formatter and handler:

```php
<?php
use GraphQL\GraphQL;
use GraphQL\Error\Error;
use GraphQL\Error\FormattedError;

$myErrorFormatter = function(Error $error) {
    return FormattedError::createFromException($error);
};

$myErrorHandler = function(array $errors, callable $formatter) {
    return array_map($formatter, $errors);
};

$result = GraphQL::executeQuery(/* $args */)
    ->setErrorFormatter($myErrorFormatter)
    ->setErrorsHandler($myErrorHandler)
    ->toArray(); 
```

Note that when you pass [debug flags](#debugging-tools) to **toArray()** your custom formatter will still be 
decorated with same debugging information mentioned above.

# Schema Errors
So far we only covered errors which occur during query execution process. But schema definition can 
also throw `GraphQL\Error\InvariantViolation` if there is an error in one of type definitions.

Usually such errors mean that there is some logical error in your schema and it is the only case 
when it makes sense to return `500` error code for GraphQL endpoint:

```php
<?php
use GraphQL\GraphQL;
use GraphQL\Type\Schema;
use GraphQL\Error\FormattedError;

try {
    $schema = new Schema([
        // ...
    ]);
    
    $body = GraphQL::executeQuery($schema, $query);
    $status = 200;
} catch(\Exception $e) {
    $body = [
        'errors' => [FormattedError::createFromException($e)]
    ];
    $status = 500;
}

header('Content-Type: application/json', true, $status);
echo json_encode($body);
```

Commit message:

Add Debug::RETHROW_UNSAFE_EXCEPTIONS flag
This allows for a more granular default for which Exceptions are thrown, taking
the settings made through the ClientAware interface into account.

- Add docs
- Add a test case
- Differentiate clearly from other test

docs/error-handling.md, after:

# Errors in GraphQL

Query execution process never throws exceptions. Instead, all errors are caught and collected. 
After execution, they are available in **$errors** prop of 
[`GraphQL\Executor\ExecutionResult`](reference.md#graphqlexecutorexecutionresult).

When the result is converted to a serializable array using its **toArray()** method, all errors are 
converted to arrays as well using default error formatting (see below). 

Alternatively, you can apply [custom error filtering and formatting](#custom-error-handling-and-formatting)
for your specific requirements.

# Default Error formatting
By default, each error entry is converted to an associative array with following structure:

```php
<?php
[
    'message' => 'Error message',
    'category' => 'graphql',
    'locations' => [
        ['line' => 1, 'column' => 2]
    ],
    'path' => [
        'listField',
        0,
        'fieldWithException'
    ]
];
```
Entry at key **locations** points to a character in query string which caused the error.
In some cases (like deep fragment fields) locations will include several entries to track down 
the path to field with the error in query.

Entry at key **path** exists only for errors caused by exceptions thrown in resolvers. 
It contains a path from the very root field to actual field value producing an error 
(including indexes for list types and field names for composite types). 

**Internal errors**

As of version **0.10.0**, all exceptions thrown in resolvers are reported with generic message **"Internal server error"**.
This is done to avoid information leak in production environments (e.g. database connection errors, file access errors, etc).

Only exceptions implementing interface [`GraphQL\Error\ClientAware`](reference.md#graphqlerrorclientaware) and claiming themselves as **safe** will 
be reported with a full error message.

For example:
```php
<?php
use GraphQL\Error\ClientAware;

class MySafeException extends \Exception implements ClientAware
{
    public function isClientSafe()
    {
        return true;
    }
    
    public function getCategory()
    {
        return 'businessLogic';
    }
}
```
When such exception is thrown it will be reported with a full error message:
```php
<?php
[
    'message' => 'My reported error',
    'category' => 'businessLogic',
    'locations' => [
        ['line' => 10, 'column' => 2]
    ],
    'path' => [
        'path',
        'to',
        'fieldWithException'
    ]
];
```

To change default **"Internal server error"** message to something else, use: 
```
GraphQL\Error\FormattedError::setInternalErrorMessage("Unexpected error");
```

# Debugging tools

During development or debugging use `$result->toArray(true)` to add **debugMessage** key to 
each formatted error entry. If you also want to add exception trace - pass flags instead:

```
use GraphQL\Error\Debug;
$debug = Debug::INCLUDE_DEBUG_MESSAGE | Debug::INCLUDE_TRACE;
$result = GraphQL::executeQuery(/*args*/)->toArray($debug);
```

This will make each error entry to look like this:
```php
<?php
[
    'debugMessage' => 'Actual exception message',
    'message' => 'Internal server error',
    'category' => 'internal',
    'locations' => [
        ['line' => 10, 'column' => 2]
    ],
    'path' => [
        'listField',
        0,
        'fieldWithException'
    ],
    'trace' => [
        /* Formatted original exception trace */
    ]
];
```

If you prefer the first resolver exception to be re-thrown, use following flags:
```php
<?php
use GraphQL\GraphQL;
use GraphQL\Error\Debug;
$debug = Debug::INCLUDE_DEBUG_MESSAGE | Debug::RETHROW_INTERNAL_EXCEPTIONS;

// Following will throw if there was an exception in resolver during execution:
$result = GraphQL::executeQuery(/*args*/)->toArray($debug); 
```

If you only want to re-throw Exceptions that are not marked as safe through the `ClientAware` interface, use
the flag `Debug::RETHROW_UNSAFE_EXCEPTIONS`.

# Custom Error Handling and Formatting
It is possible to define custom **formatter** and **handler** for result errors.

**Formatter** is responsible for converting instances of [`GraphQL\Error\Error`](reference.md#graphqlerrorerror) 
to an array. **Handler** is useful for error filtering and logging. 

For example, these are default formatter and handler:

```php
<?php
use GraphQL\GraphQL;
use GraphQL\Error\Error;
use GraphQL\Error\FormattedError;

$myErrorFormatter = function(Error $error) {
    return FormattedError::createFromException($error);
};

$myErrorHandler = function(array $errors, callable $formatter) {
    return array_map($formatter, $errors);
};

$result = GraphQL::executeQuery(/* $args */)
    ->setErrorFormatter($myErrorFormatter)
    ->setErrorsHandler($myErrorHandler)
    ->toArray(); 
```

Note that when you pass [debug flags](#debugging-tools) to **toArray()** your custom formatter will still be 
decorated with same debugging information mentioned above.

# Schema Errors
So far we only covered errors which occur during query execution process. But schema definition can 
also throw `GraphQL\Error\InvariantViolation` if there is an error in one of type definitions.

Usually such errors mean that there is some logical error in your schema and it is the only case 
when it makes sense to return `500` error code for GraphQL endpoint:

```php
<?php
use GraphQL\GraphQL;
use GraphQL\Type\Schema;
use GraphQL\Error\FormattedError;

try {
    $schema = new Schema([
        // ...
    ]);
    
    $body = GraphQL::executeQuery($schema, $query);
    $status = 200;
} catch(\Exception $e) {
    $body = [
        'errors' => [FormattedError::createFromException($e)]
    ];
    $status = 500;
}

header('Content-Type: application/json', true, $status);
echo json_encode($body);
```
